# Unmeasured-Confounding
SAS code is posed here. They are used in data analysis to compare ordinary least squares, fixed effect models, linear mixed models and instrumental variable methods in the presence of unmeasured within- and between-cluster confounding in the following publication: 

Li Y, Lee Y, Port F and Robinson BM: The impact of unmeasured within- and between-cluster confounding on the bias of effect estimatorsof a continuous exposure. Statistical Methods in Medical Research 2019, In Press Notes: doi: 10.1177/0962280219883323. 

Abstract: Unmeasured confounding almost always exists in observational studies and can bias estimates of exposure effects. Instrumental variable methods are popular choices in combating unmeasured confounding to obtain less biased effect estimates. However, we demonstrate that alternative methods may give less biased estimates depending on the nature of unmeasured confounding. Treatment preferences of clusters (e.g., physician practices) are the most frequently used instruments in instrumental variable analyses (IVA). These preference-based IVAs are usually conducted on data clustered by region, hospital/facility, or physician, where unmeasured confounding often occurs within or between clusters. We aim to quantify the impact of unmeasured confounding on the bias of effect estimators in IVA, as well as several common alternative methods including ordinary least squares regression, linear mixed models (LMM) and fixed effect models (FE) to study the effect of a continuous exposure (e.g., treatment dose) on a continuous outcome. We derive closed-form expressions of asymptotic bias of estimators from these four methods in the presence of unmeasured within- and/or between-cluster confounders. Simulations demonstrate that the asymptotic bias formulae well approximate bias in finite samples for all methods. The bias formulae show that IVAs can provide consistent estimates when unmeasured within-cluster confounding exists, but not when between-cluster confounding exists \cite{LiY}. On the other hand, FEs and LMMs can provide consistent estimates when unmeasured between-cluster confounding exits, but not for within-cluster confounding. Whether IVAs are advantageous in reducing bias over FEs and LMMs depends on the extent of unmeasured within-cluster confounding relative to between-cluster confounding. Furthermore, the impact of unmeasured between-cluster confounding on IVA estimates is larger than the impact of unmeasured within-cluster confounding on FE and LMM estimates. We illustrate the use of these methods in estimating the effect of erythropoiesis stimulating agents on hemoglobin levels. Our findings provide guidance for choosing appropriate methods to combat the dominant types of unmeasured confounders and help interpret statistical results in the context of unmeasured confounding.
